# DATA 150: Data Science for Human Development

Course Attribute: COLL 150   
Credit Hours: 4   

Meeting Times: 9:30 to 10:50 TTh  
Location: ISC 1111

Instructor: Ethan Brewer    
email: EthanMicahelBrewer@gmail.com  
office: ISC 1252

# Course Description  

This course is an introductory exploration into the intersection of global human development with data science. Each student will be introduced to relevant development topics as they pertain to populations, natural resources, and built environments. Students will explore the application of state-of-the-art data science methods to topics in human development, with a focus on geospatial data and issues. Additionally, students will develop an annotated bibliography, write a literature review, form a central research question, and seek to identify a research gap. The course concludes with a group presentation and an individual research proposal that highlights and summarizes the most significant findings from the semester. Pre-requisite(s): None

# Goals and Objectives:
- To learn about the research process and how it can be used to build a knowledge base to support your writing
- To investigate a subject matter by defining its boundaries, identifying significant contributing areas of interest, and discarding non-essential and/or non-contributing information
- To use a body of knowledge as the basis for writing a research paper, including the formulation of a central research question
- To produce a scientific article, including a literature review, methodological discussion, citations, bibliography, abstract, and information about the author
- To challenge students to become apprentice scholars and identify a central research focus of interest

# Honor Code
Among our most significant traditions is the student-administered honor system. The Honor Code is an enduring tradition with a documented history that originates as far back as 1736. The essence of our honor system is individual responsibility. Today, students, such as yourself, administer the Honor pledge to each incoming student while also serving to educate faculty and administration on the relevance of the Code and its application to students’ lives.

The Pledge

“As a member of the William and Mary community, I pledge on my honor not to lie, cheat, or steal, either in my academic or personal life. I understand that such acts violate the Honor Code and undermine the community of trust, of which we are all stewards.”

# Accessibility, Attendance & Universal Learning
William & Mary accommodates students with disabilities in accordance with federal laws and university policy. Any student who feels they may need accommodation based on the impact of a learning, psychiatric, physical, or chronic health diagnosis should contact Student Accessibility Services staff at 757-221-2509 or at sas@wm.edu to determine if accommodations are warranted and to obtain an official letter of accommodation. For more information, please see www.wm.edu/sas.

I am committed to the principle of universal learning. This means that our classroom, our virtual spaces, our practices, and our interactions be as inclusive as possible. Mutual respect, civility, and the ability to listen and observe others carefully are crucial to universal learning. Active, thoughtful, and respectful participation in all aspects of the course will make our time together as productive and engaging as possible.

# Grade Categories

100 ≥ A ≥ 93  
93 > A- ≥ 90  
90 > B+ ≥ 87  
87 > B ≥ 83  
83 > B- ≥ 80  
80 > C+ ≥ 77  
77 > C ≥ 73   
73 > C- ≥ 70  
70 > D+ ≥ 67   
67 > D ≥ 63   
63 > D- ≥ 60  
F < 60


# Grading Opportunities

|    |    |
| --- | --- |
| Participation | 20% |
| Class essays | 20% |
| Four formal writing assignments | 40% |
| Final | 20% |
