# Final: Research Proposal

Write a research proposal that you plan to implement in order to answer your central research question.

1. Introduce your research idea and provide context for the starting point. Describe the open question you have identified as well as its relevance to the existing body of literature. Include perspective regarding the potential benefit from successful implementation of your research plan.
2. Propose your solution or concept that will serve to advance answering your central research question. Envision a 1-3 year time horizon to answer, or at least explore, your research question. Describe your approach including necessary tasks that need to be executed in order to investigate the research problem. Postulate a novel hypothesis.
3. Describe the objective of your inquiry. Identify major gains, obstacles, or bottlenecks you anticipate. What suggestions for subsequent research could arise from the potential outcomes of the study? What will the results mean to practitioners? In what way would individuals or groups potentially benefit? How will the results of the study be implemented and what innovations could emerge? [Organizing A Social Sciences Research Proposal](https://libguides.usc.edu/writingguide/researchproposal)
4. Argue why the funders should consider your research plan. You are welcome to compare your plan to other methods that were identified as part of your literature review or methodological investigation. Focus only on comparing the pros and cons of methods within the context of your application.
5. Which objections do you expect in response to your plan? Provide arguments against those possible concerns. If applicable, include justification for your selected research design when compared to other known options.
6. Provide a brief budget. Consider any costs associated with paying yourself and other researchers and workers, data collection, travel/accommodations/food, etc. Consider that all potential funding institutions are generally receptive towards contributions that will serve to fulfill plan goals and objectives within reasonable limits. Consider that you are bound to all laws of the country where the donor institution is located (a democracy).
7. Keep in mind that your plan should focus on a methodological solution to your proposed central research question. This will likely involve a step forward with some aspect of the existing methodology and/or access to data needed for use in that newly conceptualized method. **Recognizing that some chosen topics are difficult to formulate data science methods for, it is not a requirement to utilize data science (in its narrowest definition) in your proposal.**

## Deliverable

Your research proposal should meet a minimum word count of 1,800 words, not including references or titles. Be certain to cite all sources and include a bibliography of references. Include figures, captions, and formulas, as needed. Upload your research plan to your GitHub no later than Tuesday December 14th at 12:00 noon.
