# Assignment 3: Methodological Investigation

## Summary

Data science is primarily concerned with the use of data to describe events occurring in our natural or social world and statistical methods that estimates relationships, interactions, and causes in order to analyze conditions and infer possible future outcomes. Thus far you have identified a harmful, significant, and quantifiably measurable problem associated with a dimension of human development and described the inherent and complex nature of that problem through a critical analysis of the literature. Now you will select at least two data science methods that describe your problem, model relationships between variables, analyze interactions and produce findings that provide some answers to your formulated central research question. You will need to describe the data used in each applicable journal article, interpret each model used, and finally seek to identify a gap in the literature worthy of future research.

## Instructions

1. Begin by writing a brief and concise introduction to your selected human development topic (~one paragraph). Identify salient harms, quantify their significance, and describe the inherent and complex nature of the human development process you are investigating. Identify the data science methods you have selected and describe them. State your broad central research question and briefly and broadly (couple sentences) relate how the selected methods have been used to describe, analyze, and/or model your selected human development process.

2. Select two data science methods from your eight+ sources. Describe the data sources used with each of the applied scientific methods and identify tools or methods the authors used to collect their data. How was the data processed? Did the authors conduct a survey or use secondary data? Did their data have a spatial or temporal dimension? What is the validity and reliability of the data? Add a table, chart, illustration, or map in order to further reinforce your description of the data.
3. Computationally describe what each of the two data science methods do and why they are significant towards advancing a better understanding of your selected human development process. Describe how the authors used their data to specify their statistical model. Identify and describe the variables used in each model. Compare and evaluate the two data science methods as needed. Is one an improvement over the other through addressing a research gap in the literature? Are the two methods complimentary in answering more detailed aspects of your broader research focus? Typeset each of the methods in their mathematical form, if applicable. Again, add a table, chart, illustration, or map in order to describe computational analysis and/or results.
4. Identify the findings that each relevant article reports as a result of applying their statistical method to the data. Describe each finding and explain how it contributes towards answering part of your central research question. Did the authors note significant correlations between two or more variables during their analysis? Feel free to speculate and discuss as to why any correlations may exist. Include non-textual elements such as plots, charts, tables, and/or maps to illustrate key findings from each of your journal articles, as needed. Do any of the models have predictive power to forecast future conditions? Have the authors validated their model? How did they do so?
5. Identify an area in the research that appears to need further consideration yet seems to have been neglected. Perhaps it is a part of your central research question that was left unanswered. A research gap could also reflect a limitation or need for improvement with a statistical method. Do the data or models fail to describe, analyze, or predict some essential element from your area of research? Identify a research gap and discuss it in your conclusion.

## Deliverable

Type your methodological investigation. Title your document. Add your name and cite your sources.  Identify each reference in a bibliography at the end of your document. Your review should be at least 1,200 words in length. Upload your work no later than Sunday November 21st at 11:59pm.
